toefl listening gist content
in this video i'm going to explain to
you what a gist
content question tests you on how to
identify these types of questions
what strategy you can use and we'll
finish with some tips and tricks
so what is a gist content question what
does it test you on
it tests your ability to recognize the
main idea
in a lecture or to understand the
general topic of
a conversation this is pretty
straightforward how do we identify these
types of questions
well you'll see question prompts that
will ask you something like this
what is the lecture mainly about or what
do the speakers
mainly discussing or what is the main
topic of the lecture or conversation
so what strategy should you use if you
see one of these question types
well you need to listen to the audio and
take notes
you need to read the question then think
about the general topic
try to summarize your notes into one
sentence
and then eliminate incorrect answer
options to arrive at the correct answer
option
let's listen to this audio and take
notes so please have your pen and paper
ready
here we go
i didn't see you in class last week
where were you
don't tell anyone but i've been skating
for three days
skiing you're kidding me how was it it
was
awesome honestly it was the best powder
snow i have
ever skied and the weather was just
perfect was it just you
no no six of us from the club win do you
ski i wish
i've always wanted to and you know just
give it a try
but i'm always busy when friends go for
some reason
i'd love to go one day the college ski
club is open to all students it's
a good idea to go and talk to them if
you're interested it really is something
new that i've been wanting to try
so i think i will i guess there will be
other events this semester yeah sure um
last week was a bit improvised but we
took a chance in the snowfall in the
weather and it worked out perfectly
i think there is a week organized in the
semester break
sounds great like a ski week yeah the
club owns a hut
and the rates are really reasonable just
get a group of friends together and join
the rest of the members
on a week in the snow i went last year
and had a blast
cool i know a few friends that could be
talked into it for sure
will you be going i'm thinking about it
great
let's keep each other posted i'm really
excited now actually
sure let's make it happen
okay so here are the notes that i've
taken i've divided my notes into two
columns speaker one and speaker two
so now let's read the question what are
the students mainly discussing
and we'll think about the general topic
here
and we can see some key words popping up
now i'm going to try to summarize my
notes into one sentence
something like the students are
discussing the university ski club
it's membership amenities and events
next i'm going to eliminate answer
options that i know
are wrong they didn't capture the main
idea of that conversation
so i'm going to eliminate based on my
sentence or what i think is the best
summary or main idea
i'm going to eliminate this one here
this one here and this one here and so
i've arrived at the correct answer
option
which is the college ski club that is
what the students were mainly
discussing let's try it now with a
lecture
and before we do that let's recap the
strategy so listen to the audio and take
notes
read the question think about the
general topic
try to summarize your notes into a
single sentence
and then eliminate incorrect answer
options to arrive at
the correct one here we go listen to
this audio
and take notes plato suggested that our
soul can be understood
as having three parts that we have a
rational part
which he represents sometimes as a human
being
sometimes as a charioteer that we have
one called the spirited part
which he represents sometimes as a
cooperative horse
sometimes as a lion and that we have in
addition
an appetite of part which he represents
sometimes as a wild horse
and sometimes as a multi-headed beast
plato's suggestion is that a certain
kind of happiness is available to us
if we get these parts into line he
proposes that we are happy
when we don't allow the various parts to
meddle with each other
we must he argues regulate these parts
of ourselves
put them in order and harmonize them
much like notes on a musical scale
we are often pulled in two directions
pulled in the direction of keeping the
internet off
and pulled in the direction of checking
your facebook page
pulled in the direction of going to the
library and doing your homework and
pulled in the direction of hanging out
in your room and talking to your
roommate
we're pulled in the direction of what
reason tells us to do
and pulled in the direction of what our
spirit or appetite tells us to do
in regulating this you become entirely
one
moderate and harmonious so
the platonic ideal of the
well-structured soul
is one regulated by reason in which
spirit and appetite are subjected to
reasons mandates
here are my notes
now i'm going to read the question what
is the lecture mainly about
i'm going to think about the general
topic
and i can see some keywords here in my
notes
i'm going to then summarize my notes
into one sentence something like
the lecture is about plato's thoughts on
the relationship between the different
parts of our soul
next i'm going to eliminate incorrect
answer options
and i'll arrive at the correct one which
is plato's understanding of parts of the
soul
is what that lecture was mainly about
let's finish with some tips and tricks
so don't note down every word just note
down
key words key phrases and use shorthand
that is
you're not writing full words or full
sentences
keep your notes organized think about
how you can divide your piece of paper
into
categories read the answer options
last first try to guess the answer
based on your notes and of course
practice makes perfect so you might want
to check out e2language.com where you
can do lots of practice questions
you can take our mini mock test which is
pretty awesome it gives you an
indicative score and lots of feedback on
all parts of the test
cool if you're watching this on youtube
don't forget to subscribe like leave a
comment and share this with your friends
[Music]